
# Purpose

The purpose of 'pair_species_mutation' is to generate a number of RNA circuits and then mutate them, where the length of each RNA sequence is uniform and specified in the config file, along with the number of species.

## Circuit generation

The circuits are generated by first generating a 'template' RNA species randomly, with the abundances of nucleotides set to match that of E. coli K-12 [Bionumbers](https://bionumbers.hms.harvard.edu/bionumber.aspx?id=100528) [GBE paper](https://academic.oup.com/gbe/article/8/3/742/2574078):

- G 25.4% (50.8%/2)
- C 25.4% (50.8%/2)
- A 24.6% (49.2%/2)
- T 24.6% (49.2%/2)

The template is the species that has been selected to be the input signal (via name in signal config). Once the template has been generated, the remaining RNA species are generated as mutated versions of the template. There are several ways in which this can happen, which are captured within the RNAGenerator class attribute 'generate_circuit' through the options:

1. 'random': Random string sequence generated with weighted characters
2. 'template_mix': Mix between 'template_mutate' and 'template_split'. A template sequence is interleaved with complementary characters
3. 'template_mutate': A template sequence is mutated according to weighted characters
4. 'template_split': Parts of a template sequence are made complementary

## Mutations

Once the RNA sequence of all circuit species have been determined, the circuit is ready to be used for simulations. The 'wrap_mutations' function allows any sequence of modelling functions to be applied to mutated iterations of the same base circuit. In 'pair_species_mutation', this includes initialising the circuit by simulating the interactions between species and finding the steady states, then simulating the behavior of the circuit when one of the species is selected as an input signal. The results are then written to the experiment folder to a subfolder for each circuit, and within that to a subfolder for each mutated iteration of that circuit. The interaction simulator output can be raw energy values or include an optional postprocessing step before outputs are written.
